Step 1: Check Prerequisites
Before installing PyTorch, ensure that you have Python installed on your system. PyTorch supports Python versions 3.6 and above.

Step 2: Choose the Installation Options
PyTorch provides different installation options based on your system, GPU availability, and preferred package manager. The two primary installation configurations are:

CPU-only Installation:
If you don't have a compatible NVIDIA GPU or prefer to use PyTorch without GPU support, you can install the CPU-only version.

GPU Installation:
If you have an NVIDIA GPU and want to leverage its computational power, you can install the GPU version of PyTorch. This version requires additional GPU drivers and libraries.

Step 3: Select the Installation Command
Use the following command to install PyTorch based on your chosen configuration:

CPU-only Installation:

bash
Copy code
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
GPU Installation:

bash
Copy code
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu<version>/torch_stable.html
Replace <version> with your CUDA version (e.g., cu102 for CUDA 10.2).

Step 4: Verify the Installation
After the installation is complete, verify that PyTorch has been installed successfully by opening a Python interactive session (e.g., using the python or python3 command) and running the following commands:

python
Copy code
import torch
print(torch.__version__)
This should print the installed PyTorch version, confirming that PyTorch is ready to use.

Optional Steps:
Install with Conda:
If you prefer using Conda, you can install PyTorch using the following command:

bash
Copy code
conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cudatoolkit=<version> -c pytorch
Replace <version> with your CUDA version (e.g., cudatoolkit=10.2).

Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended):
It's a good practice to use virtual environments to isolate your Python environment. You can create a virtual environment using tools like virtualenv or conda before installing PyTorch.

Following these steps should help you download and install PyTorch successfully on your system.